README.md, before:

# Saturday Morning Productions Website

[![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=GitHub&color=fe8e86)](https://github.com/sponsors/saturdaymp)

The official website for Saturday Morning Productions, built with Jekyll and hosted on GitHub Pages.  Let me know if you spot any issues, have an improvement, or any questions by opening a [Issue](https://github.com/saturdaymp/saturdaymp.github.io/issues) or [Pull Request](https://github.com/saturdaymp/saturdaymp.github.io/pulls).  This site is public so we can all learn from it!

See how this site was migrated from a Rails app to Jekyll:

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYPcrKbLqwutOPHv6zimONxErY7ke9tWn


## About Saturday Morning Productions

Saturday Morning Productions is a software development and consulting company based in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Since 2009, we've been helping people ship high-quality software faster.  Feel free to contact us if you are interested in our services or have any questions!

**Contact Us:**
- Email: [info@saturdaymp.com](mailto:info@saturdaymp.com)
- Website: [https://saturdaymp.com](https://saturdaymp.com)

## Running Locally

To run the website locally using Docker:

```bash
docker compose up app
```

The site will be available at:
- Website: [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)
- LiveReload: Port 35729 (automatic browser refresh on file changes)

## Deployment

This website automatically deploys to GitHub Pages using GitHub Actions. The deployment workflow is triggered when:

1. Changes are pushed or merged to the `main` branch
2. Manual workflow dispatch from the Actions tab
3. The "Fetch YouTube Videos" workflow completes successfully (ensures new videos are deployed automatically)

**Deployment Process:**
1. **Build Job**: Sets up Ruby 3.4, installs dependencies via Bundler, and builds the Jekyll site
2. **Deploy Job**: Deploys the built site to GitHub Pages

The site is built using the production Jekyll environment and is available at [https://saturdaymp.github.io](https://saturdaymp.github.io).

**Note**: When adding new configuration files, documentation files, or development-related files to the repository, remember to update the `exclude` list in `_config.yml` to prevent them from being processed and published to the live site.

## YouTube Videos Integration

The site displays videos from The SaturdayMP Show YouTube channel. A GitHub Actions workflow automatically fetches the latest videos weekly.

### Setup

1. **Create a YouTube Data API Key**:
   - Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
   - Create a project and enable YouTube Data API v3
   - Create an API key

2. **Add GitHub Secret**:
   - Go to repository Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions
   - Add secret: `YOUTUBE_API_KEY` with your API key

3. **Enable Auto-merge**:
   - Go to repository Settings > General > Pull Requests
   - Enable "Allow auto-merge"

4. **Run the Workflow**:
   - Go to Actions > "Fetch YouTube Videos"
   - Click "Run workflow" to fetch videos

The workflow runs automatically every Sunday at midnight UTC, creating a PR that auto-merges when checks pass. When the PR is merged, the Jekyll deployment workflow is triggered to rebuild and deploy the site with the new videos.

### Manual Testing

You can test the fetch script locally:

```bash
YOUTUBE_API_KEY=your_key ./scripts/fetch-youtube-videos.sh
```

Commit message:

Update documentation for pull_request deployment trigger
- Fix deployment trigger descriptions in README and AGENTS to reflect
  the pull_request: closed approach instead of workflow_run
- Add validate-youtube-data.yml to project structure and YouTube docs
- Document cancel-in-progress concurrency behavior
- Add AI agent guideline: no AI attribution in commits or PRs

README.md, after:

# Saturday Morning Productions Website

[![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=GitHub&color=fe8e86)](https://github.com/sponsors/saturdaymp)

The official website for Saturday Morning Productions, built with Jekyll and hosted on GitHub Pages.  Let me know if you spot any issues, have an improvement, or any questions by opening a [Issue](https://github.com/saturdaymp/saturdaymp.github.io/issues) or [Pull Request](https://github.com/saturdaymp/saturdaymp.github.io/pulls).  This site is public so we can all learn from it!

See how this site was migrated from a Rails app to Jekyll:

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYPcrKbLqwutOPHv6zimONxErY7ke9tWn


## About Saturday Morning Productions

Saturday Morning Productions is a software development and consulting company based in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Since 2009, we've been helping people ship high-quality software faster.  Feel free to contact us if you are interested in our services or have any questions!

**Contact Us:**
- Email: [info@saturdaymp.com](mailto:info@saturdaymp.com)
- Website: [https://saturdaymp.com](https://saturdaymp.com)

## Running Locally

To run the website locally using Docker:

```bash
docker compose up app
```

The site will be available at:
- Website: [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)
- LiveReload: Port 35729 (automatic browser refresh on file changes)

## Deployment

This website automatically deploys to GitHub Pages using GitHub Actions. The deployment workflow is triggered when:

1. Changes are pushed or merged to the `main` branch
2. Manual workflow dispatch from the Actions tab
3. A YouTube videos update PR is merged into `main` (via `pull_request: closed` event)

**Deployment Process:**
1. **Build Job**: Sets up Ruby 3.4, installs dependencies via Bundler, and builds the Jekyll site
2. **Deploy Job**: Deploys the built site to GitHub Pages

The site is built using the production Jekyll environment and is available at [https://saturdaymp.github.io](https://saturdaymp.github.io).

**Note**: When adding new configuration files, documentation files, or development-related files to the repository, remember to update the `exclude` list in `_config.yml` to prevent them from being processed and published to the live site.

## YouTube Videos Integration

The site displays videos from The SaturdayMP Show YouTube channel. A GitHub Actions workflow automatically fetches the latest videos weekly.

### Setup

1. **Create a YouTube Data API Key**:
   - Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
   - Create a project and enable YouTube Data API v3
   - Create an API key

2. **Add GitHub Secret**:
   - Go to repository Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions
   - Add secret: `YOUTUBE_API_KEY` with your API key

3. **Enable Auto-merge**:
   - Go to repository Settings > General > Pull Requests
   - Enable "Allow auto-merge"

4. **Run the Workflow**:
   - Go to Actions > "Fetch YouTube Videos"
   - Click "Run workflow" to fetch videos

The workflow runs automatically every Sunday at midnight UTC, creating a PR that auto-merges when checks pass. When the PR is merged, the Jekyll deployment workflow is triggered to rebuild and deploy the site with the new videos.

### Manual Testing

You can test the fetch script locally:

```bash
YOUTUBE_API_KEY=your_key ./scripts/fetch-youtube-videos.sh
```
